hello everyone welcome to the second
edition of the monthly Idol ganger Q&A
like last month I've searched the
comments for questions and interesting
remarks that I will answer and talk
about a bit more this is a public video
in which I will touch on two topics
which are the similarities between
Buddhism and stoicism and stoicism as a
religion the patron edition of the Q&A
will contain topics like Sigma males
stoic virtues boomers and bloomers
Marcus Aurelius and I will say a few
words about the Delta male at this
version is accessible on my patreon page
and I would be very happy if you're
willing to support my work so I can keep
creating content
[Music]
first topic is more of a generic reply
to several comments that pointed out the
same thing these are three of them the
first one is from Erin stoner saying
stoicism is in many ways similar to
Buddhism the second one is from formless
7 7 7 saying stoicism derived from
Hellenic Buddhism Buddhist missionaries
even came West and taught during the
Roman Empire and the Stoics were the
result and the last one is from Sam
ergun saying stoicism the Buddhism of
the West so these were the quotes I
agree that Buddhism and stoicism have
similarities both are directed towards
achieving and maintaining a mental state
that we could call equanimity someone in
a comment section below one of my
stoicism videos says that equanimity is
perhaps a better word to describe this
sense of detachment that the Stoics are
looking for than the words indifference
that I used which is different from the
Greek word a pitaya the mind state that
the buddhists want to achieve is called
nirvana
which is similar to a Pattaya because
both point to peace of mind being free
of worry and rumination Buddhist a stoic
ways to deal with external things that
by disturbers are quite similar I can't
fully explain this in a few minutes but
I'll give you an idea the Stoics use
rational thinking to determine what
things are up to us and what things are
not up to us and then decide that we
shouldn't worry about the things that
are not in our control
the Stoics try to transcend what we call
a value judgment saying that we aren't
harmed by the situation itself but bar
judgments about that situation an
example someone yells at you or insult
you what aspect of this event hurts you
the insult or the way you process the
insult
according to stoicism it's the letter
and thus we can choose to feel offended
and choose not to feel offended in other
words we experience someone insulting us
then we judge the event and attribute a
value to it
for example an insult experienced as an
Pleasant and hostile and having the urge
to punch that person in the face and
then we make a conscious decision for
example that person is being an ass
because he or she is ignorant possibly
miserable whatever the reason is this
person isn't worth my time and energy
and I will let it pass the Buddhists
have a similar approach the Buddha said
that we have a choice to receive or
reject an insult one day when a man
angrily insulted the Buddha he asked the
man if you buy a gift for someone and
that person does not take it to whom
does that gift belong the man answered
it would belong to me because I bought
the gift
so the Buddha answered that is correct
and this is the same with your anger
if you become angry with me and I do not
get insulted then the anger returns to
you then you are the one who becomes
unhappy not me all you have done is hurt
yourself
so Buddhists as well as Stoics are aware
that we can choose to be disturbed by
something both stoicism and Buddhism are
geared towards acceptance and not
desiring things to happen otherwise then
they will happen Buddhists say that
everything is impermanent
so whatever will happen will cease to
exist anyway we don't have problems
outside ourselves it's just what the
mind makes of it we can't control the
future so why worry about it
the Stoics have a concept called amor
fati which is the love of fate which
means that we should embrace whatever
happens this doesn't mean that we
shouldn't strive for anything we should
actually strive for things that are
virtuous but we shouldn't attach to the
outcome
attaching to the outcome will makers
worry and worry is detrimental for our
health the Stoics and Buddhists agree
that the best thing we can do is to live
in the present moment when we live in
the present moment we don't ruminate
about the past and don't worry about the
future the present moment is all we have
furthermore it's the place where the
future is made by the way I'm currently
writing a book
insults and how to deal with insults
based on philosophy mainly stoic
philosophy and I'll keep you updated
about it if you would like me to make a
video about the similarities between
Buddhism and stoicism please let me know
the second question was asked in Dutch
and it's about stoicism again and was
placed below the video about the three
pillars of stoicism I translated this
quote into English and here it comes in
regards to the mentioned religions is
stoicism in this interpretation just an
inspiration for this or can a stoic
basically be called religious and quote
I like questions like these especially
because I have a background in religious
studies during which I've not only
studied many religions and philosophies
but also became aware of a phenomenon
called religiosity religious 'ti is
basically what makes something religious
or not religiosity can manifest in many
different ways and according to the soft
science of the humanities there doesn't
have to be a god for human activities to
be called religious the Stoics evolved
did worship gods however which you will
see for yourself when you read the stoic
works modern stoicism seems to be more
secular and when I observe contemporary
Stoics I suspect them to approach
stoicism in a secular way mainly
focusing on the wisdom and logic part of
the philosophy anyway I answered the
question in a comment section and I will
translate it
here it comes it depends on what
definition of religion you start with in
the ancient times
stoicism went hand-in-hand with the
polity ISM back then if you read
meditations by Marcus Aurelius you'll
see this as well but if you exclude this
you can render some sort of Supreme
Being from the stoic physics the logos
in other words a stoic who believes in
logos could be considered religious by
most definitions of religion also
religion often goes together with an
ultimate concern which is living in
accordance with nature for the Stoics I
do see overlap with religion but modern
Stoics will probably be reluctant in
regards to this question especially
because contemporary stoicism
is some kind of secular alternative for
conventional religion and quote what I
would like to add is that the word
religion stems from the latin word le
gallais which can be translated as
connect or reconnect although there
aren't stoic temples there are some
active groups for Stoics in existence on
the internet some people in those groups
might treat stoicism religiously using
it as social cement connecting with
like-minded people in order to achieve a
common goal like living virtuous or
reaching a state of apathy
especially when a sense of community is
involved and one becomes emotionally
connected to the fellow Stoics and
people are getting terms like memento
mori and amor fati tattooed on their
bodies we could say from a religious
studies perspective that there's a bit
of religiosity going on among some
modern Stoics in other words people make
religion and stoicism can be practiced
religiously by some people but that
doesn't make it a religion per se in the
same reasoning soccer can be practiced
religiously by some people but that
doesn't make it a religion per se an
argument against OS ism as a religion is
that stoicism was and is rather a
philosophy that is compatible with
existing religions like it was
syncretized with the Greek polytheism
and can now be synchronized with for
example Christianity unlike most
religions stoicism isn't really
concerned with the afterlife it's more
concerned with our lives here and now in
this world in a patron edition of the
Q&A I will talk about more topics which
are the three pillars of stoicism this
Sigma meal what's important to Stoics
the Delta meal Marcus Aurelius as a
Sigma meal and tumors and bloomers thank
you for watching
[Music]